Document supported ways for setting conventions on lazy properties (#28679)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/authoring-builds/tasks/lazy_configuration.adoc

include::{snippetsPath}/providers/propertyConvention/tests/propertyConvention.out[]
----

=== Where to apply conventions from?

> In general, you want to apply convention to a property at configuration time, before tasks execute, so task actions are not appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, you want to apply convention to a property at configuration time (i.e., before execution), so task actions are not appropriate.
```

> In general, you want to apply convention to a property at configuration time, before tasks execute, so task actions are not appropriate.

Reviewer 2: 🤔 I think this deserves some justification. When applied in action:
* the convention value is not going to participate in input snapshotting.
* it may override another convention specified externally.

Author: Thanks, Mike,. I think this (what to do at configuration time vs execution) should be covered elsewhere, not here. I think I will just refrain from mentioning what not to do, and cover the cases we want to promote.

> Still, there are multiple options for appropriate locations for setting a convention on a property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Still, there many appropriate locations for setting a convention on a property.
```

==== From a plugin's `apply()` method

> Plugin authors may configure a convention on a lazy property from a plugin's `apply()` method, while performing preliminary configuration of the property-owning task.

Reviewer 2: 🤔 Properties might also be part of an extension.

A common example of a task property using extension property as a fallback convention could be useful here too.

Author: Changed it to "while performing preliminary configuration of the owning task or extension.".

==== From a build script

> Build engineers may configure a convention on a lazy property from shared build logic that is configuring tasks in a standard way for the entire build.

Reviewer 2: 💅 It might be worth it to call out the use cases explicitly:
* when I'm *defining* a property in a plugin/task: I use apply/constructor/initialization
* when I'm configuring a property of a third-party plugin I've applied: I use my convention plugin or `set` in the Project.

Note that for project-specific values, instead of conventions, you should prefer setting explicit values (using `Property.value(...)` or `ConfigurableFileCollection.setFrom(...)`, for instance).

==== From the task constructor

> A task author may configure a convention on a lazy property from the task constructor. This approach works for properties with trivial defaults,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A task author may configure a convention on a lazy property from the task constructor. 
This approach works for properties with trivial defaults, but it is not appropriate if additional context (external to the task implementation) is required in order to set a suitable default.
```

> but it is not appropriate if additional context (external to the task implementation) is required in order to set a suitable default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/providers/propertyConventionCallsites/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=convention-callsites]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/providers/propertyConventionCallsites/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=convention-callsites]"]
====

==== From a plugin's `apply()` method

Plugin authors may configure a convention on a lazy property from a plugin's `apply()` method, while performing preliminary configuration of the task or extension defining the property.
This works well for regular plugins (meant to be distributed and used in the wild), and internal <<sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.adoc#sec:convention_plugins,convention plugins>> (which often configure properties defined by third party plugins in a uniform way for the entire build).

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/providers/propertyConventionCallsites/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=convention-callsites-from-plugin]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/providers/propertyConventionCallsites/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=convention-callsites-from-plugin]"]
====

> ==== From a build script

Reviewer 3: 🤔 Maybe instead of "From a build script" rather From a convention plugins"?

Convention plugins are normally used for sharing build logic. Build script sounds very broad term.

Author: @asodja Convention plugins are (now) covered in the previous section.

The different sections attempt to cover alternatives across syntax/API options and less about types of users.

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/providers/propertyConventionCallsites/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=convention-callsites-from-buildscript]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/providers/propertyConventionCallsites/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=convention-callsites-from-buildscript]"]
====

Note that for project-specific values, instead of conventions, you should prefer setting explicit values (using `Property.set(...)` or `ConfigurableFileCollection.setFrom(...)`, for instance),
as conventions are only meant to define defaults.

==== From the task initialization

A task author may configure a convention on a lazy property from the task constructor or (if in Kotlin) initializer block.
This approach works for properties with trivial defaults, but it is not appropriate if additional context (external to the task implementation) is required in order to set a suitable default.

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/providers/propertyConventionCallsites/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=convention-callsites-from-constructor]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/providers/propertyConventionCallsites/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=convention-callsites-from-constructor]"]
====

> ==== Next to the property declaration

Reviewer 3: 🤔 Are all these cases "best practices"? I don't know to be honest.

Author: I intended to document the options we allow, hopefully in the order we want to promote them (and the differences between them). Are any options missing? Are there options covered here that we do not want to promote at all?
